Note that option order is significant:  An option only applies to
subsequent input files.  (So if you are using splitter, you probably
want to put most of your options before '-c template.args'.)

General options:

--help=topic
	Print help on the given topic.  If the topic is omitted then a
	list of all the help topics is printed instead.

--version 
	Output program version to stderr.

filename
--input-file=filename
	Read input data from the give file.  This option (or just a
	filename) may be given more than once. Make sure to set all 
	wanted options before using this.

--gmapsupp
	Create a gmapsupp.img file that can be uploaded to a Garmin or
	placed in "/Garmin" in a microSD card (such as by mounting the
	device in USB mass storage mode).  It can be used on ready
	compiled img files, if the input files are not already compiled
	then they are compiled first and then the gmapsupp is created.

--gmapi
	Create a directory in the "gmapi" format required by Mac
	applications. Can also be used for Windows programs.

-c filename
--read-config=filename
	Each line of the named file contains a command option in the form
	option=value or option:value.  The options are included as arguments of
	the executed command as if they had been specified on the command line.
	Lines beginning with a # character are ignored and can be used as
	comments.  Any command line option can be specified, however the
	leading '--' must be omitted.  The short option names with a single
	'-' cannot be used, simply use the long name instead. 

--output-dir=directory
	The directory in which all output files are written. It defaults
	to the current working directory, i.e. the directory the command is
	executed from.

-n name
--mapname=name
	Set the name of the map. Garmin maps are identified by an 8 digit
	number.  The default is 63240001.  It is best to use a different
	name if you are going to be making a map for others to use so
	that it is unique and does not clash with others.

--description=text
	Sets the descriptive text for the map. This may be displayed in
	QLandkarte, MapSource or on a GPS, where it is normally shown
	below the family name. Example: --description="Germany, Denmark"
	Please note: if you use splitter.jar to build a template.args file
	and use -c template.args, then that file may contain a
	"description" that will override this option for each single
	tile. Make sure to set the description for the gmapsupp.img after
	"-c template.args".    

--country-name=name
	Sets the map's country name. The default is "COUNTRY".

--country-abbr=abbreviation
	Sets the map's abbreviated country name. The default is "ABC".

--region-name=name
	Sets the map's region name. By default, the map has no region name.

--region-abbr=abbreviation
	Sets the map's abbreviated region name. By default, the map has
	no abbreviated region name.
	
Label options:

--latin1
	This is equivalent to --code-page=1252.

--unicode
	This is equivalent to --code-page=65001. Note that  
	some devices don't support Unicode maps produced by mkgmap.

--code-page=number
	This option enables the use of international characters. Only 8 bit
	character sets are supported and so you have to specify which code page
	you want to use.

	It is entirely dependent on the device firmware which code pages are
	supported.
	
--lower-case
	Allow labels to contain lower case letters.  Note that most or all
	Garmin devices are not able to display lower case letters at an angle
	so this option is not generally useful.

Address search options:
--index
	Generate a global address search index. If the --gmapsupp option is
	also given, then the index is generated within the resulting
	gmapsupp.img file so that address search will work on a GPS
	device.

	If instead the --tdbfile option is given then the index consists
	of two files named osmmap.mdx and osmmap_mdr.img which can be used
	with MapSource.  The --overview-mapname option can be used to change
	these names.  (For compatibility, you do not need the tdbfile
	option if gmapsupp is not given).

	If both the --gmapsupp and --tdbfile options are given alongside
	the --index option, then both indexes will be created. Note that
	this will require roughly twice as much memory.

	If the map is sent to the device by MapSource, it will enable
	find by name and address search on the GPS.
	
	The address fields are assigned by special mkgmap address
	tags using the style file:
	  mkgmap:country
	  mkgmap:region
	  mkgmap:city
	  mkgmap:postal_code
	  mkgmap:street
	  mkgmap:housenumber
	  mkgmap:phone
	  (mkgmap:is_in - used by location-autofill=is_in)

	If the index is created from previously compiled .img files, then the
	same code page and sorting options (e.g. --code-page, --latin1) must
	be used as were used to compile the individual map tiles.

--split-name-index
	An option to enable indexing each part of a street name separately.
	So for example if the street is "Aleksandra Gryglewskiego" then you will be able to
	search for it as both "Aleksandra" and "Gryglewskiego".  It will also increase the
	size of the index.  Useful in countries where searching for the first word in name
	is not the right thing to do. Words following an opening bracket '(' are ignored. 
	See also option road-name-config.  

--road-name-config=filename
	This option handles the problem that some countries have road names which 
	often start or end with very similar words, e.g. in France the first word
	is very often 'Rue', often followed by a preposition like 'de la' or 'des'.
	This leads to rather long road names like 'Rue de la Concorde' where only
	the word 'Concorde' is really interesting. In the USA, you often have names
	like 'West Main Street' where only the word 'Main' is important.  
	Garmin software has some tricks to handle this problem. It allows the use
	of special characters in the road labels to mark the beginning and end of 
	the important part. In combination with option split-name-index
	only the words in the important part are indexed.

	There are two different effects of this option:
	- On the PC, when zooming out, the name 'Rue de la Concorde' is only
		rendered as 'Concorde'.
	- The index for road names only contains the important part of the name.
		You can search for road name Conc to find road names like 'Rue de la Concorde'.
		One problem: Search for 'Rue' will not list 'Rue de la Concorde' 
		or 'Rue du Moulin'. It may list 'Rueben Brookins Road' if that is in the map.
		Only MapSource shows a corresponding hint.
		
	Another effect is that the index is smaller. 
	The option specifies the path to a file which gives the details. See 
	comments in the sample roadNameConfig.txt for further details.
 
--mdr7-excl=name[,name...]
	This option allows you to specify words which should not be in the road index.
	It was added before option road-name-config and is probably no longer needed.
	Example usage: --x-mdr7-excl="Road, Street, Straße, Weg"
 
--mdr7-del=name[,name...]
	Use this option if your style adds strings to the labels of roads which you
	want to see in the map but which should not appear in the result list
	of a road name / address search. The list is used like this:
	For each road label, mkgmap searches for the last blank. If one is found, it checks
	if the word after it appears in the given list. If so, the word is removed
	and the search is repeated. The remaining string is used to create the index.
	Example: Assume your style adds surface attributes like 'pav.' or 'unp.' to a road
	label. You can use --mdr7-del="pav.,unp." to remove these appendixes from the index.
	  
--poi-excl-index=poi[-poi][,poi[-poi]...]
	By default, mkgmap indexes the following POI types with a non-empty label:
	- 0x00 .. 0x0f (cities, sub type 0, type <= 0xf)
	- 0x2axx..0x30xx (Food & Drink, Lodging, ...)
	- 0x28xx (no category ?)
	- 0x64xx .. 0x66xx (attractions)   
	This option allows to exclude POI types from the index. 
	The excluded types are not indexed but may still be searchable on a device, 
	as some devices seem to ignore most of the index, e.g. an Oregon 600 with 
	firmware 5.00 only seems to use it for city search.
	If your device finds a POI name like 'Planet' when you search for 'Net',
	it doesn't use the index because the index created by mkgmap cannot help for 
	that search. 
	So, this option may help when you care about the size of the index or the
	memory that is needed to calculate it.    
	The option expects a comma separated list of types or type ranges. A range is 
	given with from-type-to-type, e.g. 0x6400-0x6405. First and last type are both 
	excluded.  A range can span multiple types, e.g. 0x6400-0x661f.  
	Examples for usage: 
	- Assume your style adds a POI with type 0x2800 for each addr:housenumber.
		It is not useful to index those numbers, so you can use 
		--poi-excl-index=0x2800
		to exclude this.
	- For the mentioned Oregon you may use --poi-excl-index=0x2a00-0x661f
		to reduce the index size.
		
--bounds=directory|zipfile
	A directory or a zip file containing the preprocessed bounds files. 
	Bounds files in a zip file must be located in the zip file's root directory.

	The preprocessed boundaries are used to add special tags to all elements 
	(points, lines and polygons) containing the elements location information.
	The style file can be used to assign the address tags mkgmap:country,
	mkgmap:region etc. using these values.

	The following special tags are added:          
			  mkgmap:admin_level2 : Name of the admin_level=2 boundary 
			  mkgmap:admin_level3 : Name of the admin_level=3 boundary
			  ..
			  mkgmap:admin_level11
			  mkgmap:postcode : the postal_code value
			  
	Preprocessed bounds can be created with the following command:
	   java -cp mkgmap.jar 
		  uk.me.parabola.mkgmap.reader.osm.boundary.BoundaryPreprocessor
		  <inputfile> <boundsdir>

	The input file must contain the boundaries that should be preprocessed. 
	It can have OSM, PBF or O5M file format. It is recommended that it 
	contains the boundary data only to avoid very high memory usage.
	The boundsdir gives the directory where the processed files are stored.
	This directory can be used as --bounds parameter with mkgmap.               
    
--location-autofill=[option1,[option2]]
	Controls how the address fields for country, region, city and zip info 
	are gathered automatically if the fields are not set by using the special 
	mkgmap address tags (e.g. mkgmap:city - see option index).
	Warning: automatic assignment of address fields is somehow a best guess.

	is_in     The is_in tag is analyzed for country and region information.
              
	nearest   The city/hamlet points that are closest to the element are used 
              to assign the missing address fields. Beware that cities located 
              in the same tile are used only. So the results close to a tile 
              border have less quality.  

--housenumbers
	Enables house number search for OSM input files. 
	All nodes and polygons having addr:housenumber set are matched 
	to streets. A match between a house number element and a street is created if
	the street is located within a radius of 150m and the addr:street tag value of 
	the house number element equals the mgkmap:street tag value of the street. 
	The mkgmap:street tag must be added to the street in the style file.
	For optimal results, the tags mkgmap:city and mkgmap:postal_code should be
	set for the housenumber element. If a street connects two or more cities
	this allows to find all addresses along the road, even they have the same
	number.
	Example for given street name: 
	 Node -  addr:street=Main Street addr:housenumber=2
	 Way 1 - name=Main Street
	 Way 2 - name=Main Street, mkgmap:street=Main Street
	 Way 3 - mkgmap:street=Mainstreet
	 Way 4 - name=Main Street [A504]
	The node matches to Way 2. It has mkgmap:street set with a value equal to
	the addr:street tag value of the house number node.
	If the street is not given with addr:housenumber, mkgmap uses heuristics
	to find the best match.

Overview map options:
--overview-mapname=name
If --tdbfile is enabled, this gives the name of the overview
.img and .tdb files. The default map name is osmmap.

--overview-mapnumber=8 digit number
	If --tdbfile is enabled, this gives the internal 8 digit
	number used in the overview map and tdb file.  The default
	number is 63240000.

--overview-levels=level:resolution[,level:resolution...]
	Like levels, specifies additional levels that are to be written to the
	overview map. Counting of the levels should continue. Up to 8 additional 
	levels may be specified, but the lowest usable resolution with MapSource 
	seems to be 11. The hard coded default is empty.
	See also option --overview-dem-dist.      

--remove-ovm-work-files
	If overview-levels is used, mkgmap creates one additional file 
	with the prefix ovm_ for each map (*.img) file. 
	These files are used to create the overview map.
	With option --remove-ovm-work-files=true the files are removed 
	after the overview map was created. The default is to keep the files.  

Style options:
--style-file=filename
	Specify an external file to obtain the style from.  "file" can
	be a directory containing files such as info, lines, options
	(see resources/styles/default for an example).  The directory
	path must be absolute or relative to the current working
	directory when mkgmap is invoked.

	The file can be a zip file containing the files instead of a
	directory.

	The files can be at the top level or contained in a folder within
	the zip file.  If the zip file contains more than one top level
	folder then each folder is the name of a style that can be selected
	with the --style option.

	The argument can also be a URL that specifies the location of a
	style file.

--style=name
	Specify a style name. Must be used if --style-file points to a 
	directory or zip file containing multiple styles. If --style-file 
	is not used, it selects one of the built-in styles. 

--style-option=tag[=value][;tag[=value]...]
	Provide a semicolon separated list of tags which can be used in the style.
	The intended use is to make a single style more flexible, e.g.
	you may want to use a slightly different set of rules for a map of
	a whole continent. The tags given will be prefixed with "mkgmap:option:".
	If no value is provided the default "true" is used.  
	This option allows to use rules like
	mkgmap:option:light=true & landuse=farmland {remove landuse}
	Example: -- style-option=light;routing=car
	will add the tags mkgmap:option:light=true and mkgmap:option:routing=car
	to each element before style processing happens. 

--list-styles
	List the available styles. If this option is preceded by a style-file
	option then it lists the styles available within that file.

--check-styles
	Perform some checks on the available styles. If this option is 
	preceded by a style-file option then it checks the styles 
	available within that file. If it is also preceded by the style
	option it will only check that style.

--levels=level:resolution[,level:resolution...]
	Change the way that the levels on the map correspond to the zoom
	levels in the device. See customisation help. The hard coded default is:
	"0:24, 1:22, 2:20, 3:18, 4:16", although each style can have
	its own default. The default style for example overwrites it with
	"0:24, 1:22, 2:20, 3:18". Up to 8 levels may be specified.

--name-tag-list=tag[,tag...]
	Specify the tag that will be used to supply the name.  Useful for
	language variations.  You can supply a list of tags and the first one
	found will be used.  e.g. --name-tag-list=name:en,int_name,name

Product description options:

--family-id=integer
	This is an integer that identifies a family of products.
	Range: [1..9999]
	Mkgmap default: 6324

--family-name=name
	If you build several maps, this option describes the
	family name of all of your maps. Garmin will display this
	in the map selection screen.
	Example: --family-name="OpenStreetmap mkgmap XL 2019"

--product-id=integer
	This is an integer that identifies a product within a family.
	It is often just 1, which is the default.

--product-version=integer
	The version of the product. Default value is 100 which means version 1.00.

--series-name=name
	This name will be displayed in MapSource in the map selection
	drop-down. The default is "OSM map".

--area-name=name
	Area name is displayed on Garmin units (or at least on eTrex) as the second 
	part of the mapname in the list of the individual maps.

--copyright-message=text
	Specify a copyright message for files that do not contain one.

--copyright-file=filename
	Specify copyright messages from a file.
	Note that the first copyright message is not displayed on a device, but is 
	shown in BaseCamp. The copyright file must include at least two lines and
	be UTF-8 encoded. The following symbols will be substituted by mkgmap:
	$MKGMAP_VERSION$, $JAVA_VERSION$, $YEAR$, $LONG_DATE$, $SHORT_DATE$ and $TIME$.
	Time and date substitutions use the local date and time formats.

--license-file=filename
	Specify a file which content will be added as license.
	The license file must be UTF-8 encoded.
	The following symbols will be substituted by mkgmap:
	$MKGMAP_VERSION$, $JAVA_VERSION$, $YEAR$, $LONG_DATE$, $SHORT_DATE$ and $TIME$.
	Time and date substitutions use the local date and time formats.
	All entries of all maps will be merged in the overview map.

Optimization options:

--reduce-point-density=NUM
	Simplifies the ways with the Douglas Peucker algorithm.
	NUM is the maximal allowed error distance, by which the resulting
	way may differ from the original one.
	This distance gets shifted with lower zoom levels. 
	Recommended setting is 4, this should lead to only small differences
	(Default is 2.6, which should lead to invisible changes)

--reduce-point-density-polygon=NUM
	Allows you to set the maximal allowed error distance for the DP algorithm
	to be applied against polygons. Recommended setting is 8.

--merge-lines
	Try to merge lines. This helps the simplify filter to straighten out
	longer chunks at lower zoom levels. Decreases file size more.
	Increases paint speed at low zoom levels.
	Default is enabled, use --no-merge-lines to disable.
	
--min-size-polygon=NUM
	Removes all polygons smaller than NUM from the map.
	This reduces map size and speeds up redrawing of maps. 
	Recommended value is 8 to 15, default is 8.
	See also polygon-size-limits.

--polygon-size-limits=resolution:value[,resolution:value...]
	Allows you to specify different min-size-polygon values for each resolution.
	Sample:  
	--polygon-size-limits="24:12, 18:10, 16:8, 14:4, 12:2, 11:0"
	If a resolution is not given, mkgmap uses the value for the next higher 
	one. For the given sample, resolutions 19 to 24 will use value 12,
	resolution 17 and 18 will use 10, and so on.
	Value 0 means to not apply the size filter. 
	Note that in resolution 24 the filter is not used.  
	The following options are equivalent:
		--min-size-polygon=12
		--polygon-size-limits=24:12
		--polygon-size-limits=24:0,23:12
		--polygon-size-limits=24:0,23:12,22:12,21:12,16:12

Hill Shading (DEM) options:
	Hill Shading is rendered by PC programs (MapSource or BaseCamp) or GPS devices 
when the map includes a Digital Elevation Model (DEM). Use the following options 
to add a DEM to the map and control its characteristics. DEM creation requires 
files containing height information for the area covered by the map, the so 
called hgt files, which typically cover 1 degree latitude * 1 degree longitude 
and are named by the coordinates of their bottom left corner (eg. N53E009). They 
contain height information in a grid of points. Typical hgt files contain either 
1'' or 3'' data. 3'' files have 1201 * 1201 points, which gives 
2 * 1201 * 1201 = 2.884.802 bytes. 1'' files have 3601 * 3601 points, which gives 
2 * 3601 * 3601 = 25.934.402 bytes. Other files are supported as long as the 
formular sqrt(size/2) gives an integer value.

--dem=path[,path...]
	The option expects a comma separated list of paths to directories or zip 
	files containing *.hgt files. Directories are searched for *.hgt files and 
	also for *.hgt.zip and *.zip files. 
	The list is searched in the given order, so if you want to use 1'' files 
	make sure that they are found first. There are different sources for *.hgt 
	files, some have so called voids which are areas without data.
	Those should be avoided.  
 
--dem-dists=number[,number...]
	If given, the option specifies the resolution(s) or zoom level for the DEM 
	data. If not given, mkgmap tries to determine a reasonable value based on 
	the resolution found in the *.hgt files. For desktop programs like MapSource or 
	Basecamp you only need one zoom level, for GPS devices you need one for each 
	resolution given with the --levels option. The actual values are given as 
	distance between two DEM points and should be a multiple or submultiple of
	the distance between two points in the hgt file, that is 3314 for 1'' and 9942
	for 3''. Higher distances mean lower resolution and thus fewer bytes in the 
	map. Reasonable values for the highest resolution should not be much smaller 
	than 50% hgt resolution, that is somewhere between 1648 and 5520 for 1'' hgt 
	input files (3312 is often used), and 5520 to 9942 for 3'' hgt input files.
	Example which should work with levels="0:24, 1:22, 2:20, 3:18":
	--dem-dists=3312,13248,26512,53024
	This was found in a Garmin Demo map for transalpin data created 2009.

--dem-interpolation=auto|bicubic|bilinear
	Use this option to specify the method that is used to interpolate 
	data from hgt raster to the DEM raster. The value bicubic gives the 
	highest precision but is slower, bilinear is faster but less precise,
	it tends to smooth the profile and thus also reduces DEM size compared to 
	bicubic. The value auto means that bicubic is used where is seems 
	appropriate according to hgt resolution and dem-dist value, else bilinear
	is used. If not given, the default is auto.

--dem-poly=filename
	If given, the filename should point to a *.poly file in osmosis polygon 
	file format. The polygon described in the file is used to determine the area
	for which DEM data should be added to the map. If not given, the DEM data 
	will cover the full tile area.
  
--overview-dem-dist=integer
	If given, the option specifies the resolution(s) for the DEM data in the
	overview map. If not given or 0, mkgmap will not add DEM to the 
	overview map. Reasonable values depend on the size of the area and the 
	lowest resolution used for the single tiles, good compromises are 
	somewhere between 55000 and 276160.  

Miscellaneous options:

--max-jobs[=integer]
	When number is specified, allow that number of maps to be
	processed concurrently. If number is not specified, the limit
	is set equal to the number of CPU cores. If this option is not
	given at all, the limit is 1 (i.e., the maps are processed
	sequentially).

--keep-going
	Don't quit whole application if an exception occurs while
	processing a map - continue to process the other maps.

--block-size=integer
	Changes the block size that is used in the generated map. This
	option is not usually needed, but sometimes an error message
	will ask you to try a value for this option.

--net
	Tells mkgmap to write NET data, which is needed for address search  
	and routing. Use this option if you want full address search, but do
	not need a map that supports routing.

--route
	Tells mkgmap to write NET and NOD data, which are needed in maps 
	that support routing. If you specify this option, you do not need
	to specify --net.

--drive-on=left|right|detect|detect,left|detect,right
	Explicitly specify which side of the road vehicles are
	expected to drive on. 
	If the first option is detect, the program tries 
	to find out the proper flag. If that detection
	fails, the second value is used (or right if none is given).
	With OSM data as input, the detection tries to find out  
	the country each road is in and compares the number
	of drive-on-left roads with the rest.
	Use the --bounds option to make sure that the detection 
	finds the correct country. 
	
--check-roundabouts
	Check that roundabouts have the expected direction (clockwise
	when vehicles drive on the left). Roundabouts that are complete
	loops and have the wrong direction are reversed. Also checks
	that the roundabouts do not fork or overlap other roundabouts
	and that no more than one connecting highway joins at each node.

--check-roundabout-flares
	Sanity check roundabout flare roads - warn if they don't point
	in the correct direction or if they are not one-way or if they
	extend too far.

--max-flare-length-ratio=NUM
	When checking flare roads, ignore roads whose length is
	greater than NUM (an integer) times the distance between the
	nodes on the roundabout that the flare roads connect to. Using
	this option with a value of at least 5 will cut down the
	number of legitimate roads that are flagged as flare road
	problems. Default value is 0 (disabled) because it's not a
	completely reliable heuristic.

--ignore-turn-restrictions
	When reading OSM files, ignore any "restriction" relations.

--ignore-osm-bounds
	When reading OSM files, ignore any "bounds" elements.
	With this option selected generate-sea sometimes works better,
	but routing across tiles will not work.

--preserve-element-order
	Process the map elements (nodes, ways, relations) in the order
	in which they appear in the OSM input. Without this option,
	the order in which the elements are processed is not defined.

--remove-short-arcs[=MinLength]
  	Now ignored, former usage:	
	Merge nodes to remove short arcs that can cause routing
	problems. If MinLength is specified (in metres), arcs shorter
	than that length will be removed. If a length is not
	specified, only zero-length arcs will be removed.

--adjust-turn-headings[=BITMASK]
	Now ignored, former usage:	
	Where possible, ensure that turns off to side roads change
	heading sufficiently so that the GPS believes that a turn is
	required rather than a fork. This also avoids spurious
	instructions to "keep right/left" when the road doesn't
	actually fork.

	Optional BITMASK (default value 3) allows you to specify which
	adjustments are to be made (where necessary):

	1 = increase angle between side road and outgoing main road
	2 = increase angle between side road and incoming main road

--cycle-map
	Tells mkgmap that the map is for cyclists. This assumes that
	different vehicles are different kinds of bicycles, e.g. a way
	with mkgmap:car=yes and mkgmap:bicycle=no may be a road that is 
	good for racing bikes, but not for other cyclists.
	This allows the optimisation of sharp angles at junctions of those roads. 
	Don't use with the default style as that is a general style!
	
--report-similar-arcs
	Issue a warning when more than one arc connects two nodes and
	the ways that the arcs are derived from contain identical
	points. It doesn't make sense to use this option at the same
	time as using the cycleway creating options.

--report-dead-ends=LEVEL
	Set the dead end road warning level. The value of LEVEL (which
	defaults to 1 if this option is not specified) determines
	those roads to report: 0 = none, 1 = multiple one-way roads
	that join together but go nowhere, 2 = individual one-way roads
	that go nowhere.

--add-pois-to-lines
	Generate POIs for lines. For each line (must not be closed) POIs are
	created at several points of the line. Each POI is tagged with the
	same tags like the line and additional tags added by mkgmap:
	mkgmap:line2poi=true and tag mkgmap:line2poitype having
	the following values:
	   * start  - The first point of the line
	   * end    - The last point of the line
	   * inner  - Each point of the line except the first and the last 
	   * mid    - The middle point

--add-pois-to-areas
	Generate a POI for each polygon and multipolygon. The POIs are created 
	after the relation style but before the other styles are applied. Each 
	POI is tagged with the same tags of 
	the area/multipolygon. Additionally the tag mkgmap:area2poi=true is 
	set so that it is possible to use that information in the points style
	file. Artifical polygons created by multipolyon processing are not used.
	The POIs are created at the following positions (first rule that applies):
	   polygons: 
	       * the first node tagged with a tag defined by the pois-to-areas-placement 
	         option
	       * the centre point  
	   multipolygons:
	       * the node with role=label
	       * the centre point of the biggest area

--pois-to-areas-placement=tag=value[;tag=value...]
	A POI is placed at the first node of the polygon tagged with the first tag/value
	pair. If none of the nodes are tagged with the first tag-value pair the first node
	tagged with the second tag-value pair is used and so on. If none of the tag-value pairs
	matches or the taglist is empty, 	the centre of the polygon is used.
	It is possible to define wildcards for tag values like entrance=*.
	Default: entrance=main;entrance=yes;building=entrance

--precomp-sea=directory|zipfile
	Defines the directory or a zip file that contains precompiled sea tiles. 
	Sea files in a zip file must be located in the zip file's root directory or in 
	a sub directory sea. When this option is defined all natural=coastline tags 
	from the input OSM tiles are removed and the precompiled data is used instead. 
	This option can be combined with the generate-sea options multipolygon, polygons 
	and land-tag. The coastlinefile option is ignored if precomp-sea is set.      

--coastlinefile=filename[,filename...]
	Defines a comma separated list of files that contain coastline 
	data. The coastline data from the input files is removed if 
	this option is set. Files must have OSM or PBF fileformat.	

--generate-sea[=ValueList]
	Generate sea polygons. ValueList is an optional comma
	separated list of values:

	multipolygon
		generate the sea using a multipolygon (the default
		behaviour so this really doesn't need to be specified).

	polygons | no-mp
		don't generate the sea using a multipolygon - instead,
		generate a background sea polygon plus individual land
		polygons with tag natural=land. This requires a
		suitable land polygon type to be defined in the style
		file (suggested type is 0x010100) and the polygon must
		be defined in the TYP file as having a higher drawing
		level than the sea polygon type.

	no-sea-sectors
		disable the generation of "sea sectors" when the
		coastline fails to reach the tile's boundary.
		
	extend-sea-sectors
	  same as no-sea-sectors. Additional adds a point so 
	  coastline reaches the nearest tile boundary.

	land-tag=TAG=VAL
		tag to use for land polygons (default natural=land).

	close-gaps=NUM
		close gaps in coastline that are less than this
		distance (metres)

	floodblocker 
		enable the flood blocker that prevents a flooding of
		land by checking if the sea polygons contain streets
		(works only with multipolygon processing)		

	fbgap=NUM           
		flood blocker gap in metre (default 40)
		points that are closer to the sea polygon do not block 

	fbthres=NUM
		at least so many highway points must be contained in 
		a sea polygon so that it may be removed by the flood
		blocker (default 20)

	fbratio=NUM
		only sea polygons with a higher ratio 
		(highway points * 100000 / polygon size) are removed 
		(default 0.5)
		
	fbdebug
		switches on the debugging of the flood blocker
		generates GPX files for each polygon checked by
		the flood blocker

--make-poi-index
	Generate a POI index in each map tile. Probably not used by modern devices,
	but still supported.

--nsis
	Write a .nsi file that can be used with the Nullsoft Scriptable Install System
	(NSIS) to create a Windows Mapsource Installer.

--make-opposite-cycleways
	Some one-way streets allow bicycle traffic in the reverse
	direction and this option makes a way with the same points as
	the original that allows bicycle traffic (in both directions).

--link-pois-to-ways
	This option may copy some specific attributes of a POI 
	to a small part of the way the POI is located on. This can be used
	to let barriers block a way or to lower the calculated speed
	around traffic signals.
	POIs with the tags highway=* (e.g. highway=traffic_signals)  
	or barrier=* (e.g. barrier=cycle_barrier) are supported.
	The style developer must add at least one of the access tags
	(mkgmap:foot, mkgmap:car etc.), mkgmap:road-speed and/or 
	mkgmap:road-class to the POI. 
	The access tags are ignored if they have no effect for the way, 
	else a route restriction is added at the POI so that only 
	allowed vehicles are routed through it. 
	The tags mkgmap:road-speed and/or mkgmap:road-class are 
	applied to a small part of the way around the POI, typically
	to the next junction or a length of ~25 m. The tags
	are ignored for pedestrian-only ways.      

--process-destination
	Splits all motorway_link, trunk_link, primary_link, secondary_link,
	and tertiary_link ways tagged with destination into two or three parts where 
	the second part is additionally tagged with mkgmap:dest_hint=*.
	The code checks for the tags destination, destination:lanes, 
	destination:street and some variants with :forward/:backward like
	destination:forward or destination:lanes:backward. If a value for
	destination is found, the special tag mkgmap:dest_hint is set to 
	it and the way is split. This happens before the style rules are processed.
	This allows to use any routable Garmin type (except 0x08 and 0x09)
	for that part so that the Garmin device tells the name of
	this part as hint which destination to follow.     
	See also --process-exits.
	
--process-exits
	Usual Garmin devices do not tell the name of the exit on motorways 
	while routing with mkgmap created maps. This option splits each
	motorway_link, trunk_link, primary_link, secondary_link, and tertiary_link 
		way into three parts. 
		All parts are tagged with the original tags of the link. 
		Additionally the middle part is tagged with the following tags:
	  mkgmap:exit_hint=true
	  mkgmap:exit_hint_ref=<ref tag value of the exit>
	  mkgmap:exit_hint_name=<name tag value of the exit>
	  mkgmap:exit_hint_exit_to=<exit_to tag value of the exit>
	Adding a rule checking the mkgmap:exit_hint=true makes it possible
	to use any routable Garmin type (except 0x08 and 0x09) for the middle 
	part so that the Garmin device tells the name of this middle part as 
	hint where to leave the major road.
	The first part must have type 0x08 or 0x09 so that Garmin uses the hint. 
	
--delete-tags-file=filename
	Names a file that should contain one or more lines of the form
	TAG=VALUE or TAG=*. Blank lines and lines that start with
	a # or ; are ignored. All tag/value pairs in the OSM input are
	compared with these patterns and those that match are deleted.
	
--ignore-fixme-values
	Tells mkgmap to ignore all tags for which the value matches the pattern
	"(?i)fix[ _]?+me".	

--tdbfile
	Write files that are essential to running with MapSource, a .tdb file and
	an overview map.

--show-profiles=1
	Sets a flag in tdb file. The meaning depends on the availability of DEM 
	data (see "Hill Shading (DEM) options"). 
	Without DEM data the flag enables profile calculation in MapSource or 
	Basecamp based on information from contour lines.
	If DEM data is available the profile is calculated with that information and
	the flag only changes the status line to show the height when you hover over 
	an area with valid DEM data.
	The default is show-profiles=0.

--transparent
	Makes the map transparent, so that if two maps covering the same area are
	loaded, you can see through this map to see details from the other map too.
	Typically used for maps containing just contour lines. See --draw-priority
	as well.

--draw-priority=integer
	When two maps cover the same area and both are enabled in the device, this
	option controls the order in which they are drawn in and therefore which map
	is on top.  Higher priorities are drawn "on top" of lower priorities.
	The map drawn on top must be transparent for the one underneath to be seen.
	The default value is 25.

--custom
	Write a different TRE header. With this option, mkgmap writes the bytes
	0x170401 instead of the default 0x110301 at offset 43. Useful for marine 
	maps.
	
--hide-gmapsupp-on-pc
	Set a bit in the gmapsupp.img that tells PC software that the file is
	already installed on the PC and therefore there is no need to read it 
	from the device.

--poi-address
	Enable address / phone information to POIs. Address info is
	read according to the "Karlsruhe" tagging schema. Automatic
	filling of missing information could be enabled using the
	"location-autofill" option.
	Default is enabled, use --no-poi-address to disable.

--verbose
	Makes some operations more verbose. Mostly used with --list-styles.

--order-by-decreasing-area
	Puts polygons/areas into the map in decreasing size order, so that
	smaller features are rendered over larger ones (assuming _drawOrder
	is equal). The tag mkgmap:drawLevel can be used to override the
	natural area of a polygon, so forcing changes to the rendering order. 

Deprecated and Obsolete Options

--drive-on-left
--drive-on-right
	Deprecated; use drive-on instead.
	The options are translated to drive-on=left|right. 

--make-all-cycleways
	Deprecated, use --make-opposite-cycleways instead. Former meaning: 
	Turn on all of the options that make cycleways.

--charset=name
	Obsolete; use --code-page instead.
	option.

--map-features=filename
	Obsolete; use --style-file instead.

--ignore-maxspeeds
	Obsolete; former usage:
	When reading OSM files, ignore any "maxspeed" tags.

--ignore-builtin-relations
	Obsolete; former usage:
	When reading OSM files, skip the built-in processing of
	relations. This speeds up the processing non-routable map
	layers that do not contain multipolygons. This implies
	--ignore-turn-restrictions.

--road-name-pois[=GarminCode]
	Obsolete; former usage:
	Generate a POI for each named road. By default, the POIs'
	Garmin type code is 0x640a. If desired, a different type code
	can be specified with this option.  This is a workaround for not
	being able to search for roads.
	0x2f15: a blue dot in the middle of the road, and if you select,
	or 'hover' over it, the street name appears.

--make-cycleways
	Obsolete; former meaning:
	Some streets have a separate cycleway track/lane just for
	bicycle traffic and this option makes a way with the same
	points as the original that allows bicycle traffic. Also,
	bicycle traffic is prohibited from using the original way
	(unless that way's bicycle access has been defined).


